# Variables in JavaScript

Node.js supports three main ways to declare variables: var, let, and const.

### var

**Scope:** Function-scoped.\
**Hoisting:** Variables declared with var are hoisted to the top of their containing function or global scope.\
**Usage:** Can be redeclared and updated.

### let

**Scope:** Block-scoped.\
**Hoisting:** Variables declared with let are hoisted but not initialized.\
**Usage:** Cannot be redeclared in the same scope but can be updated.

### const

**Scope:** Block-scoped.\
**Hoisting:** Variables declared with const are hoisted but not initialized.\
**Usage:** Cannot be redeclared or updated. However, if the variable holds an object or array, the contents of the object or array can be modified. const is not a constant. That means that const CAN have it's value changed, but it is a CONSTANT in the declaration. Const must be declared when initialized.

## Best Practices

- Use **const** for variables that should not be reassigned. In fact, always use const when possible.
- Use **let** for variables that needs to be reassigned.
- Avoid using **var** due to its function-scoped nature, which can lead to unexpected behavior.
- Remember to declare a variable type. Not doing so, can cause problems.

## Examples of different variable behavior in block-scopes

In the example below the logged value will be ´false´ because the **var** variable will "bleed into" the other scope.

```
{
  var myValue = true;
  {
    var myValue = false;
  }
  console.log(myValue)
}
```
\
in the next example, the logged value will be ´true´ because assigned value of the **let** variable in the inner scope is not reachable.

```
{
  var myValue = true;
  {
    var myValue = false;
  }
  console.log(myValue);
}
```
\

In the next example, the number **6** will be logged 6 times, because when the for loop completes, the value of i is 6. All setTimeout callbacks reference the same i variable, which has the value 6 by the time they are executed. Therefore, each setTimeout callback logs 6 to the console.

```
for (var i = 0; i <= 5; i++) {
  setTimeout(() => {
    console.log(i);
  }, 1000);
}
```

#### "use strict";

The "use strict"; directive is a way to enforce a restricted variant of JavaScript. It helps catch common coding mistakes and "unsafe" actions, such as gaining access to the global object, which can cause a lot of different issues in a project.

**Benefits:**
* Eliminates some JavaScript silent errors by changing them to throw errors.
* Fixes mistakes that make it difficult for JavaScript engines to perform optimizations.
* Prohibits some syntax likely to be defined in future versions of ECMAScript.

**Key Changes in Strict Mode:**
* Variables must be declared: Assigning a value to an undeclared variable throws an error.
* Silent failing assignments: Assignments to non-writable properties, getter-only properties, and non-existing properties throw errors.
* Deleting variables or functions: Attempting to delete variables or functions throws an error.
* Duplicate property names or parameter values: Strict mode throws an error when an object literal has duplicate property names.
* Reserved words: Strict mode throws an error when you use reserved words as variable or function names.
this in global context: In strict mode, this in the global context is undefined instead of the global object.
* Function parameters: Strict mode throws an error if there are duplicate parameter names in a function.



## Learning goals:

* Understand scoping in Javascript and:

* know to always use const if you can get away with it otherwise let.