# Data Types in JavaScript

in JavaScript are divided in **primitive** datatypes and **reference** datatypes.
Some argue that there are also functional data types, more on that below.

## Primitive Data Types

Primitive datatypes are:

### Number

Number represents both integer and floating-point numbers. Unlike some other languages, JavaScript does not distinguish between integers and floats.

### String

**String** represents a sequence of characters enclosed in single quotes ('), double quotes (") or backticks (\`).
Using backticks for a string is also called a template string or template literal. It gives the benefit of [_String interpolations_](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals#string_interpolation) which means, that they allow for the use of `${placeholders}`, and line breaks - but they are slower to read (performance prop).

### Boolean

**Boolean** represents a logical entity and can have two values: `true` or `false`.

### Undefined

**Undefined** represents a variable that has been declared but not assigned a value.

### Null

**Null** represents the absence of any object value.

### Symbol

**Symbol** was introduced in ES6. Symbols are unique and immutable primitive values and may be used as the key of an object property.

### BigInt

**BigInt** was introduced in ES2020, BigInt is used to represent whole numbers larger than 2^53 - 1, which is the largest number JavaScript can reliably represent with the **Number** primitive.

## Reference Data Types

### Object

In JavaScript **objects** are used to store collections of data and more complex entities. Objects are reference types, meaning that when you assign an object to a variable, you are assigning a reference to that object, not the object itself.

Objects are key-value pairs.

Some argue that Array and Functions are also distinct data types, but they are in essence also objects.

## Type Coercion in JavaScript

Type coercion in JavaScript refers to the automatic conversion of values from one data type to another. This can happen in various situations, such as when performing operations on different data types or when using certain operators. Type coercion can sometimes lead to unexpected results if not understood properly.

In the example below, when using the `+` operator the `value` will be converted to a *string*.

```
const assignmentDescription = "value"
const value = 4;
console.log(assignmentDescription + value);
```

In this example, when using the `,` the `value` will stay a *number*, and type coercion is avoided.

### Equality Comparisons:

    == (loose equality) performs type coercion if the operands are of different types.
    === (strict equality) does not perform type coercion and checks both value and type.

#### Best Practices:
* To avoid bugs and improve code readability, it's generally recommended to use strict equality (===) and avoid relying on implicit type coercion.


## Learning goals about data types:

* Understand and work with data types in Javascript.

* Understands type coercion and strategies to avoid it.

* Knows the existing data types in Javascript and can work with them.

